# Today's Theme: 

## What I have learned today:

### Material: [Titanic]()
- Today I continue to do Titanic competition. pandas can show graph very easily. It helps me to analyse data and I could improve my score for about 2 point. :)
    
## What I have read today:
### Material: [Fundamentals of System Design — Part 3](https://medium.com/hackernoon/fundamentals-of-system-design-part-3-8da61773a631)
There are two types of indexing for DB. One is B-Tree and it is faster for reads and suitable for many transactions because it is stable and in-place. The other one is BigTable. It is faster for writes.

### Material: [Fundamentals of System Design — Part 4](https://medium.com/hackernoon/fundamentals-of-system-design-part-4-d6a62f3fa779)
In anyway, we will replicate DBs for redunduncy, geographical distances and load balancing. There are several types of replication. One is single master configuration. You can choose cynchronous or asynchronous but synchronous is slow because it has to wait for all nodes writing the changes. So, Asynchronous is much more popular. Another one is multiple master configuration and it is commonly used for the case when you have several data centers. It is fast but make concurrent writes complicated. Lastly, no-master pattern. In this case, you have to send read and write for multiple nodes at once.

### Material: [Fundamentals of System Design — Part 5](https://medium.com/hackernoon/fundamentals-of-system-design-part-5-c27b617cd532)
Partitioning always has a problem of reading. Mostly it is managed by using hash for keys. Sometimes, some "hot" items should be treated specially with random key.


## Tomorrow
I will move on to [Titanic?]()
