# Today's Theme: 

## What I have learned today:

### Material: [Mode Analysis with SQL Tutorial](https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/a-drop-in-user-engagement)
- Before making the query, it is important to set hypothesis.
- How to complement data which can not be abtained by stored data should also be considered.
    
## What I have read today:
### Material: [Inside look at modern web browser](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/09/inside-browser-part2)
- When user input somwthing in the address bar, first browser process check if it is a url or seacrh query/
- Then, navigation starts. DNS lookup or establishment of TLS starts.
- After that, response payload start to come in. Checking the content type, if it is HTML, it will be passed on to the renderer process, and if it is zip or some other file, tha download manager takes over it. At the same time, SafeBrowsing Check happens.
- When network thread confirm it is safe navigation, it tells UI thready that data is ready and UI thread start to get renderer. Actually, this UI thread's task is initiated at the point that requiest was made.
- When the rederer and data are ready, the browser proceess sent IPC to renderer process to commit navigation. In this point, address bar is updated.
- Then, when rendering finishes, it send IPC back to browser process and  the loading spinner on tha tab will disappear.
- Service worker is the JS code running in the renderer process.

## Tomorrow
I will move on to [Understanding Search Function](https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/understanding-search-functionality)
