# Today's Theme: 

## What I have learned today:

### Material: [understanding-search-functionality-answers](https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/understanding-search-functionality-answers)
- What is the purpose of search? : I think there are roughly two purposes: to find a particular item in user's mind or to find an item which will be match with what user is looking for. 
- How would you know if it is fulfilling that purpose? : For the former one, if the user can successfully land on the page of the item, it is fulfilled. If they don't click anything, user likely fail to find it. For the latter one, it goes almost the same but it is a little more difficult because sometimes it is just there are nothing which can satisfy the needs. In both case, if user does not select any result, is seems the need is not satisfied.
- How might you (quantitatively) understand the general quality of an individual user's search experience?
If I have to try several search words, the search experience is not good. So, how many search button is pushed can represent the quality. 
    
## What I have read today:
### Material: [Inside look at modern web browser](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/09/inside-browser-part3)
- What happens in renderer process
- The biggest new finding is that since composition can be executed seperated from main thread, composition-only animation is performance friendly: transform translate, scale and rotate and opacity.

## Tomorrow
I will move on to [validating-ab-test-results](https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/validating-ab-test-results)
