# Today's Theme: 

## HTTP
- HTTP is a protocol to exchange **any kind of** data between client and server **based on TCP/IP.**
- ~Its features are~ **It achieves some of REST's important features:** stateless, unifined interface **and cache.**
- It has only 8 methods: GET, PUT, POST, DELETE, ~UPDATE~ **HEAD, OPTIONS(to know the supported methods for the resource or required header fields), TRACE, CONNECT**.
- First client side send a request, server receives it and return response.
- A request and reposnse have header fields and body. 
- Here are some examples from request header fields: origin, Cache-control, referer, ~requestUrl,~ Content-type **(specify media type), Accept (for content negotiation)**
- Here are some examples from response header fields: ~status,~ Content-type, **Access-Control-Allow-Origin**
- HTTP status 1XX: **processing** , 2XX: success, 3XX:redirect , 4XX: client issues, 500: server issues.

### 1.0
- In 1.0, it cannot re-use the connection. So everytime interaction happens, it establish connection and close it. Of course, TCP have to do three-way handshake every single time.

### 1.1 
- ~In 2.0 it is enabled to recycle the conection. So once it is established, it is kept until user close the browser.~ **(This is introduced in HTTP 1.1. called Keep-alive)**
- In 1.1, **only one data can be downloaded at once in one connection and second request should wait for the first requests' completion. **This is called head of line blocking.** So it establish connection multipully at the same time, which is a heavy load for server.**
- **Also, since it is stateless, in most cases, information are added to header and sometimes it size becomes too heavy and overhead becomes large**

### 2.0
- **In 2.0, it can handle multiple data in one connection. It creates multiple "streams", virtual connections and exhange data in a unit called "frame". It reduce the load for server and reduce the number of time to do three-way handshake or TLS handshake.**
- **Also, it becomes binary base from text base. Header and body will be send in different frame.**
- **Furthermore, header can be compressed with HPACK protocol. If there is no diff in header between several request, it will not re-send the header.**
- **In addition, it enables client to specify the priority of resource using 31 bit values.**
- Though 2.0 resolves several issues in 1.1, still it has problem. For example, **TCP** Head of line blocking. **(There are two HOL)** When one of the packets are lost, TCP automatically re-send the packet. However, application cannot start processing the packets until re-sent packet has arrived though packets for another process have arrived fully. 

[Reference](https://qiita.com/uutarou10/items/7698ee3336c70a482843)

### 3.0
- To resolve issues in HTTP 2.0, the proposal of HTTP 3.0 has been formulated. One of the biggest changes would be QUIC. QUIC is the **new** communication protocol **in transport layer** based on UDP, not TCP. However, it behaves like TCP. It re-send the packet if it is lost on the way but it can proceed the process if the data for that process are all arrived.
- **It is cipher native. TLS/1.3 provide algorhythm and actual ciphering is done by QUIC. Until 1.2, it takes 3RTT(Round Trip Time) to establish encryption channel but from 1.3, it only takes 0 to 1.** 
- ****

## Tomorrow
I will move on to [HTTP wrap up part2]()

## Tomorrow
I will move on to []()
